okay we can go now to get reaction from
Mustafa bouti is the Secretary General
of the Palestinian national initiative
and former former information Minister
he joins us from rala Mustafa bouti good
to have you on the program so your
reaction firstly to this historic ruling
by the icj is this the outcome you were
hoping
for absolutely I think this is exactly
what we were hoping for and it
represents not only a historical
decision it is a big blow to the Israeli
side to Israel as a state as an
establishment as a government as
settlers and it is a big victory to the
Palestinian cause uh from legal
perspective Israel is already indicted
and condemned for its policies for its
occupation for its settlements for the
illegal aparti wall for practicing
aparti but the legal value of what
happened is that this conclusion by the
international court of justice which is
the highest legal structure in the world
has condemned all Israeli measures to
try to claim that there is no occupation
it is it has confirmed there is
occupation and this occupation is
illegal it has affirmed one more time
that Geneva Convention is applicable to
the occupied territories and it has said
that the continuation of Israeli
occupation is illegal and it has to end
and that also settlements are illegal
and they have to to to vanish and they
all settlements have to be removed but
also it obliged all countries of the
world to respect this resolution and not
to provide any support to Israel to
continue this occupation and it
it hello yes I'm still here I'm still
here Mr vuti it's it's worth me pointing
out this is an advisory opinion not a
binding one previous icj rulings as you
well know have been ignored by Israel
and its allies as our uh political
analyst Maran bashara put it a little
earlier uh do you feel that the
Palestinian leadership is overly relying
on international law uh for change for
the Palestinian people because in
reality nobody seems to be listening or
applying to
anything no no no this is a very gloomy
picture I think because uh international
law has to be used
and it doesn't deny Palestinians other
forms of resistance and it would be a
mistake to substitute all other forms of
resistance with just international law
we have to use everything but in my
opinion the value of this resolution is
very big because it provides a very
strong fundamental basis for demanding
sanctions and and boycott of Israel
sanctions and boycott boycott divestment
sanctions is now the go
and I think it is the obligation now of
the Palestinian Authority and anybody
who supports the right of
self-determination of the Palestinian
people to demand immediate sanctions on
Israel for violating international law
yes of course it is an advisory opinion
we know that but why did the court give
the advisory opinion because the United
Nations General Assembly that includes
all the countries of the world has
demanded this advisory opinion and now
it is the obligation of the general
assembly and the security Council to
respond to this ruling this has
confirmed a very important basis which
is exactly what international law says
about disputed issues nobody no more
Israel can claim that occupied
territories are disputed territories no
more it can claim that Geneva Convention
doesn't apply to occupied territories no
more it can claim that there is no
system of aparti and racial
discrimination against Palestinian
people people but now it is our duty and
the duty of everybody that respects
international law to apply this
resolution by demanding boycott
divestment sanctions I will not have
hopes that the United Nations security
Council will do that because we know
that the United Nations Security Council
is controlled by the American veto and
maybe the British veto I don't know but
the most important thing is that this
provides the basis for what we have been
working on which is the creation of a
global anti- aarte movement against the
Israeli aparte system against occupation
against discrimination against this
violation Frank violation of
international law and just to get your
reaction uh to something we heard a
little earlier prior to this ruling by
the Israeli Finance Minister he called
for an annexation of the occupied West
Bank if the icj does indeed rule against
Israel on this issue which it has are
you worried at all now that things may
actually end up getting worse for
Palestinians in the West Bank as
Israelis double down on
them no it was getting worse anyhow
because Israel has a fascist government
now Israel is officially having a
fascist government led by fascists like
SM Richard Bing beir and of course
Netanyahu and when Netanyahu declares
this is the land of Israel and claims
that the icj is anti-Semitic icj is anti
itic ICC is anti-Semitic international
law is anti-Semitic this shows you how
isolated Israel is and how marginalized
Israeli leaders are and in my opinion
this is a very optimistic situation
because it shows that the road is wide
open now to isolate this fascism in
Israel and the more Israeli crimes
happen as they are happening now in the
case of genocide and Collective
punishment in Gaza the more it is clear
that Israel is becoming a paraya
structure I cannot even say a paraya
state because it violates every aspect
of states by international law it's a
paraya structure that has to be isolated
that has to be sanctioned and that has
to be boycott and whatever Israelis say
doesn't mean anything as long as
international law says something else as
as as long as the highest court of the
world is saying something else isra
Israel cannot State on the world
whatever it wants and in in my opinion
now Israel will be more isolated than
any time before and this provides a very
good basis for our struggle for our
freedom for our
self-determination for ending this
illegal occupation and ending and
removing all these illegal Israeli
settlements whatever Israel does will
continue to lead to the more isolation
of the Israeli government and not only
that it will expose the double standard
of the American policy and the double
standard of any Western governments that
continue to support Israel and refuses
to apply sanctions on this violation of
international law okay Mustafa bouti
Secretary General of the Palestinian
national initiative former information
Minister thank you so much for your
time
thank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer